## Chapter 9 of Visual Thinking

 - author: __Colin Ware__

##### Notes

 - "__Visual thinking__ is but a small part of the dance."
 - 12 point review of visual cognition from book we haven't read:
 	1. __fovea__: Center of the eye, where attention is focused. We move this to see other things.
 	2. Our brains construct __visual queries__ to tell the eyes what and where to look.
 	3. __Orientation__, __size__, __color__, and __motion__ of each part of the image falling on the retina is determined all at once by feature-selective neurons. 
 	4. There are two major processing pathways called the _where_ and _what_ pathways.
 		- the __where__ pathway helps visually guide actions.
 		- the __what__ pathway helps idenify objects. 
 	5. All of this information is concatonated into a short lived nexus of working memories.
 	6. Language processing is done.
 	7. People point at things to connect the visual to the verbal.
 	8. "Small images [icons], symbols, and patterns can provide proxies
for concepts."
	9. "Visual queries lead to pattern searches and seeing a
pattern" — we intuitively try to find patterns
	10. "One basic skill of designers can be thought of as a form of
constructive seeing. Designers can mentally add simple patterns to
a sketch to test possible design changes before making any changes
to the sketch."
	11. "Activated long-term memories are essentially
reconstructions of prior sequences of neural activity in particular
pathways."
	12. The brain has no central "intellegence." About 50 regions all contribute to a sense of control.

> The sum of the cognitive processing that occurs in problem solving
is moving inexorably from being mostly in the head, as it was millennia
ago before writing and paper, to being a collaborative process that occurs
partly in the heads of individuals and partly in computer-based cognitive
tools.

##### Active Vision Model
The active vision model has four broad implications for design.

 1. To support the pattern-fi nding capability of the brain; that is, to turn
information structures into patterns.
 2. To optimize the cognitive process as a nested set of activities.
 3. To take the economics of cognition into account, considering the
cost of learning new tools and ways of seeing.
 4. To think about attention at many levels and design for the cognitive
thread. 

>  It is useful to think of the human and the computer together as a single
cognitive entity, with the computer functioning as a kind of cognitive coprocessor to the human brain.



## Discussion.

I was a big fan of the following line (and concept in general) from the first reading:

> It is useful to think of the human and the computer together as a single
cognitive entity, with the computer functioning as a kind of cognitive coprocessor to the human brain.

I like the fact that Ware doesn't just say that visualizations are tools but that they linked with the users own cognition.

We generally think about abstraction in computer science as building on top of lower techlogocial frameworks. But perhaps at a certain level abstraction builds ontop of your own mental capacity instead.

